Revamp Mix & OTP guides (#14637)
elixir-lang/elixir: lib/elixir/pages/mix-and-otp/config-and-distribution.md

```console
$ PORT=4100 iex --sname foo -S mix
```

And the other like this:

```console
$ PORT=4101 iex --sname bar -S mix
```

Now, within `foo@computer-name`, do this:

```elixir
iex> :erpc.call(:"bar@computer-name", KV, :create_bucket, ["shopping"])
{:ok, #PID<22121.164.0>}
```

Instead of using `Node.spawn_link/2`, we used [Erlang's builtin RPC module](`:erpc`) to call the function `create_bucket` in the `KV` module passing a one element list with the string "shopping" as the argument list. We could have used `Node.spawn_link/2`, but `:erpc.call/4` conveniently returns the result of the invocation.

Still in `foo@computer-name`, let's try to access the bucket:

```elixir
iex> KV.lookup_bucket("shopping")
nil
```

It returns `nil`. However, if you run `KV.lookup_bucket("shopping")` in `bar@computer-name`, it will return the proper bucket. In other words, the nodes can communicate with each other, but buckets spawned in one node are not visible to the other.

This is because we are using [Elixir's Registry](`Registry`) to name our buckets, which is a **local** process registry. In other words, it is designed for processes running on a single node and not for distribution.

> Luckily, Erlang ships with a distributed registry called [`:global`](`:global`), which is support by default as a naming registry. All we need to do is replace the `via/1` function in `lib/kv.ex` from this:

Reviewer: alas, no sparks of genius. maybe someone else will come up with it. something like this is the closest i'm getting. has the guide mentioned OTP at this point?

```suggestion
Luckily, Erlang ships with a distributed registry called [`:global`](`:global`), which is directly supported by OTP with its own naming tuple syntax. All we need to do is update the `via/1` function in `lib/kv.ex` from this:
```

also saw that `update` is perhaps a better word than replace

To wrap up this chapter, we will build a very simple node discovery mechanism, where the name of the nodes we are should connect to are given on boot, using the lessons we learned in this chapter.

## `Node.connect/1`

We will change our application to support a "NODES" environment variable with the name of all nodes each instance should connect to.

Open up `config/runtime.exs` and add this to the bottom:

```elixir
nodes =
  System.get_env("NODES", "")
  |> String.split(",", trim: true)
  |> Enum.map(&String.to_atom/1)

config :kv, :nodes, nodes
```

We fetch the environment variable, split it on "," while discarding all empty strings, and then convert each entry to an atom, as node names are atoms.

Now, in your `start/2` callback, we will add this to of the `start/2` function:

```elixir
  def start(_type, _args) do
    for node <- Application.fetch_env!(:kv, :nodes) do
      Node.connect(node)
    end
```

Now we can start our nodes as:

```console
$ NODES="foo@computer-name,bar@computer-name" PORT=4040 iex --sname foo -S mix
$ NODES="foo@computer-name,bar@computer-name" PORT=4041 iex --sname bar -S mix
```

And they should connect to each other. Give it a try!

> In an actual production system, there is some additional care we must take. For example, `--sname` only allows instances on the same machine to connect. For production, we would use `--name` instead.

Author: If I said different machines above it is wrong. --sname is always same machine/node.

> In an actual production system, there is some additional care we must take. For example, `--sname` only allows instances on the same machine to connect. For production, we would use `--name` instead.

Author: Well, I am clearly wrong, TIL.

> In an actual production system, there is some additional care we must take. For example, `--sname` only allows instances on the same machine to connect. For production, we would use `--name` instead.

Author: ```suggestion
In an actual production system, there is some additional care we must take. For example, we often use `--name` instead of `--sname` and give fully qualified node names.
```

<!--
  SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
  SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2021 The Elixir Team
-->

> # Configuration and distribution

Reviewer 2: This is great, and helps clarify applications vs supervisors etc. without the complexities of umbrellas.

      4040

    true ->
      4050
  end

config :kv, :port, port
```

The above is attempting to read the "PORT" environment variable and use it as the port if defined. Otherwise, we default to port `4040` for tests and port `4050` for other environments, eliminating the conflict between environments we have seen in the past. Then we store its value under the `:port` key of our `:kv` application.

Now we just need to read this configuration. Open up `lib/kv.ex` and the `start/2` function to the following:

```elixir
  def start(_type, _args) do
    port = Application.fetch_env!(:kv, :port)

    children = [
      {Registry, name: KV, keys: :unique},
      {DynamicSupervisor, name: KV.BucketSupervisor, strategy: :one_for_one},
      {Task.Supervisor, name: KV.ServerSupervisor},
      Supervisor.child_spec({Task, fn -> KV.Server.accept(port) end}, restart: :permanent)
    ]

    Supervisor.start_link(children, strategy: :one_for_one)
  end
```

Run `iex -S mix` and you will see the following message printed:

```text
[info] Accepting connections on port 4050
```

Run tests, without killing the development server, and you will see it running on port 4040.

> Our change was straight-forward. We used `Application.fetch_env!/2` to read the entry for `port` in `:kv`'s environment. We explicitly used `fetch_env!/2` (instead of `get_env/2` or `fetch_env`) because it will raise if the port wasn not configured (therefore our app wouldn't even boot).

Reviewer: also instead of `therefore our app wouldn't even boot`, perhaps `preventing the app from booting`

Mix provides many tasks for working with dependencies, which can be seen in `mix help`:

```console
$ mix help
mix deps              # Lists dependencies and their status
mix deps.clean        # Deletes the given dependencies' files
mix deps.compile      # Compiles dependencies
mix deps.get          # Gets all out of date dependencies
mix deps.tree         # Prints the dependency tree
mix deps.unlock       # Unlocks the given dependencies
mix deps.update       # Updates the given dependencies
```

The most common tasks are `mix deps.get` and `mix deps.update`. Once fetched, dependencies are automatically compiled for you. You can read more about deps by running `mix help deps`.

To wrap up this chapter, we will build a very simple node discovery mechanism, where the name of the nodes we are should connect to are given on boot, using the lessons we learned in this chapter.

## `Node.connect/1`

We will change our application to support a "NODES" environment variable with the name of all nodes each instance should connect to.

Open up `config/runtime.exs` and add this to the bottom:

```elixir
nodes =
  System.get_env("NODES", "")
  |> String.split(",")

>   |> Enum.reject(& &1 == "")

Reviewer: the paragraph below explains the code anyways, so perhaps doing the more idiomatic (citation needed) `trim: true` is valid and can be explained there
